CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to RustChain

Thanks for your interest in contributing to RustChain! We pay bounties in RTC tokens for quality contributions.

## Quick Start

1. **Browse open bounties**: Check [Issues](https://github.com/Scottcjn/Rustchain/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Abounty) labeled `bounty`
2. **Comment on the issue** you want to work on (prevents duplicate work)
3. **Fork the repo** and create a feature branch
4. **Submit a PR** referencing the issue number
5. **Get paid** in RTC on merge

## Bounty Tiers

| Tier | RTC Range | Example |
|------|-----------|---------|
| Micro | 1-10 RTC | Star + share, small docs fixes |
| Standard | 20-50 RTC | Docker setup, monitoring tools, calculators |
| Major | 75-100 RTC | SDK, CLI tools, CI pipeline, Windows installer |
| Critical | 100-150 RTC | Security audits, protocol work, bridges |

**Reference rate: 1 RTC = $0.10 USD**

## What Gets Merged

- Code that works against the live node (`https://50.28.86.131`)
- Tests that actually test something meaningful
- Documentation that a human can follow end-to-end
- Security fixes with proof of concept
- Tools that make the ecosystem more useful

## What Gets Rejected

- AI-generated bulk PRs with no testing evidence
- PRs that include all code from prior PRs (we track this)
- "Fixes" that break existing functionality
- Submissions that don't match the bounty requirements
- Placeholder data, fake screenshots, or fabricated metrics

## Development Setup

```bash
# Clone
git clone https://github.com/Scottcjn/Rustchain.git
cd Rustchain

# Python environment
python3 -m venv venv && source venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Test against live node
curl -sk https://50.28.86.131/health
curl -sk https://50.28.86.131/api/miners
curl -sk https://50.28.86.131/epoch
```

## Live Infrastructure

| Endpoint | URL |
|----------|-----|
| Node Health | `https://50.28.86.131/health` |
| Active Miners | `https://50.28.86.131/api/miners` |
| Current Epoch | `https://50.28.86.131/epoch` |
| Block Explorer | `https://50.28.86.131/explorer` |
| wRTC Bridge | `https://bottube.ai/bridge` |

## RTC Payout Process

1. PR gets reviewed and merged
2. We comment asking for your wallet address
3. RTC is transferred from the community fund
4. Bridge RTC to wRTC (Solana) via [bottube.ai/bridge](https://bottube.ai/bridge)
5. Trade on [Raydium](https://raydium.io/swap/?inputMint=sol&outputMint=12TAdKXxcGf6oCv4rqDz2NkgxjyHq6HQKoxKZYGf5i4X)

## Code Style

- Python 3.8+ compatible
- Type hints appreciated but not yet enforced
- Keep PRs focused — one issue per PR
- Test against the live node, not just local mocks

## BCOS (Beacon Certified Open Source)

RustChain uses BCOS checks to keep contributions auditable and license-clean without forcing rewrites of legacy code.

- **Tier label required (non-doc PRs)**: Add `BCOS-L1` or `BCOS-L2` (also accepted: `bcos:l1`, `bcos:l2`).
- **Doc-only exception**: PRs that only touch `docs/**`, `*.md`, or common image/PDF files do not require a tier label.
- **SPDX required (new code files only)**: Newly added code files must include an SPDX header near the top, e.g. `# SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT`.
- **Evidence artifacts**: CI uploads `bcos-artifacts` (SBOM, license report, hashes, and a machine-readable attestation JSON).

When to pick a tier:
- `BCOS-L1`: normal features, refactors, non-sensitive changes.
- `BCOS-L2`: security-sensitive changes, transfer/wallet logic, consensus/rewards, auth/crypto, supply-chain touching changes.

## Start Mining

Don't just code — mine! Install the miner and earn RTC while you contribute:

```bash
pip install clawrtc
clawrtc --wallet YOUR_NAME
```

Vintage hardware (PowerPC G4/G5, POWER8) earns **2-2.5x** more than modern PCs.

## Questions?

Open an issue or join the community. We're friendly.

Commit message:

docs: add documentation quality checklist and troubleshooting guidance (#333)
Merging — useful docs quality checklist for CONTRIBUTING.md.

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to RustChain

Thanks for your interest in contributing to RustChain! We pay bounties in RTC tokens for quality contributions.

## Quick Start

1. **Browse open bounties**: Check [Issues](https://github.com/Scottcjn/Rustchain/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Abounty) labeled `bounty`
2. **Comment on the issue** you want to work on (prevents duplicate work)
3. **Fork the repo** and create a feature branch
4. **Submit a PR** referencing the issue number
5. **Get paid** in RTC on merge

## Bounty Tiers

| Tier | RTC Range | Example |
|------|-----------|---------|
| Micro | 1-10 RTC | Star + share, small docs fixes |
| Standard | 20-50 RTC | Docker setup, monitoring tools, calculators |
| Major | 75-100 RTC | SDK, CLI tools, CI pipeline, Windows installer |
| Critical | 100-150 RTC | Security audits, protocol work, bridges |

**Reference rate: 1 RTC = $0.10 USD**

## What Gets Merged

- Code that works against the live node (`https://50.28.86.131`)
- Tests that actually test something meaningful
- Documentation that a human can follow end-to-end
- Security fixes with proof of concept
- Tools that make the ecosystem more useful

## What Gets Rejected

- AI-generated bulk PRs with no testing evidence
- PRs that include all code from prior PRs (we track this)
- "Fixes" that break existing functionality
- Submissions that don't match the bounty requirements
- Placeholder data, fake screenshots, or fabricated metrics

## Development Setup

```bash
# Clone
git clone https://github.com/Scottcjn/Rustchain.git
cd Rustchain

# Python environment
python3 -m venv venv && source venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Test against live node
curl -sk https://50.28.86.131/health
curl -sk https://50.28.86.131/api/miners
curl -sk https://50.28.86.131/epoch
```

## Live Infrastructure

| Endpoint | URL |
|----------|-----|
| Node Health | `https://50.28.86.131/health` |
| Active Miners | `https://50.28.86.131/api/miners` |
| Current Epoch | `https://50.28.86.131/epoch` |
| Block Explorer | `https://50.28.86.131/explorer` |
| wRTC Bridge | `https://bottube.ai/bridge` |

## RTC Payout Process

1. PR gets reviewed and merged
2. We comment asking for your wallet address
3. RTC is transferred from the community fund
4. Bridge RTC to wRTC (Solana) via [bottube.ai/bridge](https://bottube.ai/bridge)
5. Trade on [Raydium](https://raydium.io/swap/?inputMint=sol&outputMint=12TAdKXxcGf6oCv4rqDz2NkgxjyHq6HQKoxKZYGf5i4X)


## Documentation Quality Checklist

Before opening a docs PR, please verify:

- [ ] Instructions work exactly as written (commands are copy-pasteable).
- [ ] OS/architecture assumptions are explicit (Linux/macOS/Windows).
- [ ] New terms are defined at first use.
- [ ] Broken links are removed or corrected.
- [ ] At least one `example` command/output is updated if behavior changed.
- [ ] File and section names follow existing naming conventions.

## Common Troubleshooting Entries

If you changed setup or CLI docs, add at least one section covering common failures, for example:

- `Command not found`: verify PATH and virtualenv activation.
- `Permission denied` on scripts: ensure execute bit and shell compatibility.
- `Connection error to live node`: include curl timeout/retry guidance and fallback endpoint checks.

This keeps bounty-quality docs usable by new contributors and operators.

## Code Style

- Python 3.8+ compatible
- Type hints appreciated but not yet enforced
- Keep PRs focused — one issue per PR
- Test against the live node, not just local mocks

## BCOS (Beacon Certified Open Source)

RustChain uses BCOS checks to keep contributions auditable and license-clean without forcing rewrites of legacy code.

- **Tier label required (non-doc PRs)**: Add `BCOS-L1` or `BCOS-L2` (also accepted: `bcos:l1`, `bcos:l2`).
- **Doc-only exception**: PRs that only touch `docs/**`, `*.md`, or common image/PDF files do not require a tier label.
- **SPDX required (new code files only)**: Newly added code files must include an SPDX header near the top, e.g. `# SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT`.
- **Evidence artifacts**: CI uploads `bcos-artifacts` (SBOM, license report, hashes, and a machine-readable attestation JSON).

When to pick a tier:
- `BCOS-L1`: normal features, refactors, non-sensitive changes.
- `BCOS-L2`: security-sensitive changes, transfer/wallet logic, consensus/rewards, auth/crypto, supply-chain touching changes.

## Start Mining

Don't just code — mine! Install the miner and earn RTC while you contribute:

```bash
pip install clawrtc
clawrtc --wallet YOUR_NAME
```

Vintage hardware (PowerPC G4/G5, POWER8) earns **2-2.5x** more than modern PCs.

## Questions?

Open an issue or join the community. We're friendly.
